---
layout: default
title: 3.1 Output - Expansion with Generated answers 
nav_order: 1
description: "Chroma for RAG"
has_children: false
parent:  3. Query Expansion
grand_parent: Advanced Retrieval for AI - Chroma
---


```
89 directors and executive officers of microsoft corporation directors
satya nadella chairman and chief executive officer, microsoft
corporation sandra e. peterson 2, 3 operating partner, clayton,
dubilier & rice, llc john w. stanton 1, 4 founder and chairman, trilogy
partnerships reid g. hoffman 4 general partner, greylock partners penny
s. pritzker 4 founder and chairman, psp partners, llc john w. thompson
3, 4 lead independent director, microsoft corporation hugh f. johnston
1 vice chairman and executive vice president and chief financial
officer, pepsico, inc. carlos a. rodriguez 1 chief executive officer,
adp, inc. emma n. walmsley 2, 4 chief executive officer, gsk, plc teri
l. list 1, 3 former executive vice president and chief financial
officer, gap, inc. charles w. scharf 2, 3 chief executive officer and
president, wells fargo & company padmasree warrior 2 founder, president
and chief executive

officer, fable group inc. board committees 1. audit committee 2.
compensation committee 3. governance and nominating committee 4.
environmental, social, and public policy committee executive officers
satya nadella chairman and chief executive officer amy e. hood
executive vice president and chief financial officer judson althoff
executive vice president and chief commercial officer bradford l. smith
vice chair and president christopher c. capossela executive vice
president, marketing and consumer business, and chief marketing officer
christopher d. young executive vice president, business development,
strategy, and ventures kathleen t. hogan executive vice president and
chief human resources officer

the company engaged deloitte & touche llp, an independent registered
public accounting firm, to audit and render an opinion on the
consolidated financial statements and internal control over financial
reporting in accordance with the standards of the public company
accounting oversight board ( united states ). the board of directors,
through its audit committee, consisting solely of independent directors
of the company, meets periodically with management, internal auditors,
and our independent registered public accounting firm to ensure that
each is meeting its responsibilities and to discuss matters concerning
internal controls and financial reporting. deloitte & touche llp and
the internal auditors each have full and free access to the audit
committee. satya nadella chief executive officer amy e. hood executive
vice president and chief financial officer alice l. jolla corporate
vice president and chief accounting officer

84 report of independent registered public accounting firm to the
stockholders and the board of directors of microsoft corporation
opinion on the financial statements we have audited the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets of microsoft corporation and subsidiaries (
the “ company ” ) as of june 30, 2022 and 2021, the related
consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows,
and stockholders ’ equity, for each of the three years in the period
ended june 30, 2022, and the related notes ( collectively referred to
as the “ financial statements ” ). in our opinion, the financial
statements present fairly, in all mat erial respects, the financial
position of the company as of june 30, 2022 and 2021, and the results
of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended june 30, 2022, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the united states of america.

88 report of independent registered public accounting firm to the
stockholders and the board of directors of microsoft corporation
opinion on internal control over financial reporting we have audited
the internal control over financial reporting of microsoft corporation
and subsidiaries ( the “ company ” ) as of june 30, 2022, based on
criteria established in internal control — integrated framework ( 2013
) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway
commission ( coso ). in our opinion, the company maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting
as of june 30, 2022, based on criteria establis hed in internal control
— integrated framework ( 2013 ) issued by coso. we have also audited,
in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting
oversight board ( united states ) ( pcaob ), the consolidated financial
statements as of and for the year ended june 30, 2022, of the company
and
```
