---
layout: default
title: 5.2 BM25 Algorithm
nav_order: 2
description: ".."
has_children: false
parent:  5. Sparse Dense and Hybrid Search
grand_parent:  Vector Databases
mathjax: true
---


<script type="text/javascript"
	src="//cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS_HTML,
	/javascripts/MathJaxLocal.js
"></script>


## Introduction

In the realm of information retrieval, search engines play a crucial role in assisting users in finding relevant information from vast amounts of data. The efficiency and effectiveness of search engines heavily rely on ranking algorithms. One such algorithm that has gained significant attention and success is the BM25 (Best Match 25) ranking algorithm. BM25 is a term-based ranking model that aims to provide accurate and relevant search results by scoring documents based on their term frequencies and document lengths. This essay explores the fundamental concepts and working principles of the BM25 ranking algorithm.


## Overview of the BM25 Algorithm

The BM25 algorithm was introduced by Robertson and Walker in 1994 as an improvement over the previous Okapi BM11 algorithm. BM25 takes into account both term frequency (TF) and document length normalization to determine the relevance of a document to a given query. It follows the probabilistic retrieval framework, which assumes that relevant and non-relevant documents follow different statistical distributions.

## Key Components of BM25

Term Frequency (\\(TF\\)): \\(TF\\) refers to the number of times a particular term appears in a document. However, BM25 uses a modified term frequency that takes into account saturation effects to prevent overemphasizing heavily repeated terms.
Inverse Document Frequency (\\(IDF\\)): \\(IDF\\) measures the importance of a term in the entire corpus. It assigns higher weights to terms that are rare in the corpus and lower weights to terms that are common. 

IDF is calculated using the formula: \\(IDF = log((N — n + 0.5) / (n + 0.5))\\), where N is the total number of documents and n is the number of documents containing the term.

Document Length Normalization: BM25 incorporates document length normalization to address the impact of document length on relevance scoring. Longer documents tend to have more occurrences of a term, leading to potential bias. Document length normalization counteracts this bias by dividing the term frequency by the document’s length and applying a normalization factor.
Query Term Saturation: BM25 also includes a term saturation function to mitigate the impact of excessively high term frequencies. This function reduces the effect of extremely high term frequencies on relevance scoring, as very high frequencies often correspond to less informative terms.
Calculation of BM25 Score
The BM25 score for a document D with respect to a query Q is calculated as the sum of the scores for individual query terms. The formula for calculating the BM25 score is as follows:

\begin{equation}
\operatorname{score}(D, Q)=\sum_{i=1}^n \operatorname{IDF}\left(q_i\right) \cdot \frac{f\left(q_i, D\right) \cdot\left(k_1+1\right)}{f\left(q_i, D\right)+k_1 \cdot\left(1-b+b \cdot \frac{|D|}{\text { avgdl }}\right)}
\end{equation}


In this formula, \\(IDF(q)\\) represents the inverse document frequency of the query term \\(q\\), \\(TF(q, D)\\) denotes the modified term frequency of term \\(q\\) in document \\(D\\), absolute value of  \\(D\\)  
represents the length of document \\(D\\), and avgdl is the average document length in the corpus. Parameters \\(k1\\) and \\(b\\) are tunable constants that control the impact of term frequency saturation and document length normalization, respectively.

## Advantages and Limitations of BM25

### Advantages

BM25 is a widely used ranking algorithm due to its simplicity and effectiveness in producing relevant search results.It takes into account both term frequency and document length normalization, which helps address the issue of document length bias. The algorithm can handle large document collections efficiently, making it scalable for real-world search scenarios.

### Limitations

BM25 does not consider the semantic meaning or context of the query and the documents, which may result in suboptimal ranking for certain types of queries.
It assumes statistical independence between query terms, which may not hold true in some cases where term dependencies exist.
The algorithm heavily relies on term frequency and document length, potentially overlooking other important factors like document structure and relevance feedback.


Based on content from the Article [understanding-the-bm25-ranking-algorithm](
https://medium.com/@evertongomede/understanding-the-bm25-ranking-algorithm-19f6d45c6ce)